## Designing the Citizen Data Experience

Forward: This federal government project at Accenture is still in development, so I have omitted all specific titles and agency names to respect the bounds of a non-disclosure agreement. I am also obligated to withhold visuals from the project. Thank you for understanding.

The United States government collects vast amounts of data about its citizens, which is subsequently made available for a myriad of purposes. From writing school projects to creating the foundations of nationwide legislation, data about US citizens takes many shapes; however, accessibility and usability of that data is a constant challenge for the government. A major data-collecting government agency asked a team at Fjord to re-design how every citizen could access and consume their public data.

The agency had 32 separate “products” that allowed citizens to find and manipulate data, with each product addressing separate user groups. This caused an expansion in the number of pages and experiences that the agency offered citizens, obliterating any sense of consistency in the interaction patterns across products. The first task that the team undertook was identifying several factors about each product: whom the product was intended for, the functionality behind each product, and the reason for initial creation. Going through this exercise left us with a clear answer: unify all of the agency’s products into a single effective platform and create a better .gov experience.

My contribution in this stage of the project was to do a meta-analysis of prior research and create recommendations for project trajectory. To do this, I retrofit an interview matrix to connect individual interviews conducted by my team with bodies of literature in what I called a “collective voice” that would inform decisions. Once this framework had been completely fleshed out, the team reviewed my findings, translated them into digestible paragraphs and persona cards, and invited the agency clients into the office for a co-creative session. The outputs of this sessions resulted in an entirely new approach to the dissemination of data. The client's whiteboard sketches served as a launching point for my sketch iteration and initial wireframing, which are used to drive client vision and spur conversation in client leadership. Since then, the outputs have transformed the client’s thought on the art of the possible. Our designs showcase a new experience: one where data is no longer stuck in comma separated value files, but rather shown in a variety of formats, from chart visualizations to thematic maps and geospatial gradients. Over the course of 10 months, the team has exceeded timeline expectations and we hope to finish deployment by June 2018, when the interface will be readily available for the public.
